# Making research work visible with alternative publishing formats

Much research work goes unrecognized and unrewarded, because it remains invisible. Right now, papers are treated as first class research work, at the expense of much other research work. For example, data is forced into data papers, software into software papers. Even digital innovations mostly take place for papers: Dynamic figures, executable research papers. As a result, the paper publishing format makes much other research work second-class. Without alternative publishing formats that make allow all research work to be made visible, efforts to change evaluation systems will be stifled from the get-go.

In this talk, I discuss two concrete alternative publishing formats we've realized in ResearchEquals, which help make different types of research work visible. First, I discuss research modules as a flexible format to make any research output visible. A module can be a theory, a preregistration, study materials, data, code, video, audio, and much more. Second, I discuss overlay journals as a way to make curation work visible. Curation takes place everyday (e.g., collating reading lists, systematic reviews) and is necessary to sort through the volume of information. Overlay journals provide the option to make that curation work visible and make the collective time spent potentially more effective.

Realizing alternative publishing formats also comes with its own challenges. I will close by discussing practical lessons from the past five years, including the need to build capacity for social change and the need for structural forms of investment in new models. We may have been working on this for five years, but that is only the start of a much longer process and larger vision to create real, encompassing publishing alternatives for research.

## Keywords

research modules, overlay journals, ResearchEquals, research work, visibility
 
## Bio 
 
Chris Hartgerink (they/them; @chartgerink) is a generalist: researcher, statistician, software programmer, businessperson.

Starting in social psychology under who later became known as the biggest known psychology fraud, they subsequently focused on meta-research and ways to improve the sustainability of research. They were a Mozilla Open Science Fellow and a Shuttleworth Fellow.

In 2019, they founded Liberate Science GmbH after leaving academia. A mentor called them a "voice of reason" while also being a "system challenger." Their philosophy of open is one of equity and power distribution, instead of accumulation. This philosophy is relentlessly radical, striving to (out)grow old habits by cultivating real and practical alternatives.